Last Saturday I went to G5A for the Agnes Varda retrospective. Agnes Varda is one of the greatest filmmakers of all time but I had never been able to finish any of her films before, so I was excited for an intentional opportunity to watch her films. We reached there a few minutes late and extremely sleep deprived which is not exactly the condition I want to be in to watch an Agnes film. The first film, Gleaners and I, turned out to be a documentary about gleaning, the act of gathering leftover crops from agricultural fields after the primary harvest. For a moment I was extremely concerned about dozing off and bring shame upon myself, in front of my date, as a self proclaimed cinema patrician. To my surprise, these interviews with the poor, the misfits, the unconventional and the discarded were full of deep emotions and brought to life with her whimsical style. Scenes like her gleaning heart shaped potatoes, pretending to trap passing by trucks with her hand close to the lens, a legal official holding the penal code dramatically describing the laws for gleaning like it's a courtroom and not an agricultural field, buying a handless clock, the lens cap "dance" where she accidentally left her camera recording with the lens cap dangling, added a layer of playfulness and made it a very bittersweet experience. The film had a wide variety of background music ranging from Jazz to melancholic instrumental to rap which was a good reflection of the wide variety of emotions the film had to offer as well Agnes' filmmaking versatility. One of my favorite moments was her recording her hand - "To film one hand with my other hand... to enter into the horror of it. I find it extraordinary. I feel like an animal. Worse, I see an animal I don't know." which seemed like her addressing her own aging. That explains why the film is named Gleaners **and I**, the film is as much about gleaners as it is about Agnes herself. Throughout the film, I found myself wishing to have her as a friend in my life and to be able to better embody whimsical energy like she does. I left the room feeling very warm inside, having entirely forgotten my erstwhile intense urge to sleep.

The second film we watched was "The Creatures", which was a completely different genre - SciFi/Drama. It's a story within a story, except that only becomes clear as we progress through the film and I enjoyed the puzzle solving experience. The concept is amazing - a writer copes with injuring his wife as a result of his recklessness and moving to a new place by writing a novel about an engineer who can control people, inspired by the inhabitants of the island he has newly moved to. I don't have a lot to say about it, it was overall rather mediocre when compared to the first film but I enjoyed the idea of a board game with actual people instead of pieces. 